Vegan Taco Salad with Homemade Tortilla Bowls
 

Print
Cook time
7 mins
Total time
7 mins
 
Make your own taco shell bowls, and fill them with healthy and tasty vegan ingredients!
Author: Angela @ Vegangela
Recipe type: Salad, Main
Cuisine: Mexican, Southwestern
Ingredients
Flour tortillas (make sure they're vegan)
vegetable oil (canola, peanut, etc)
Medium oven-safe bowl
Kitchen string
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400C.
Find a medium-sized bowl on which you can lay the tortilla - ideally, a bit bigger than the tortilla so that it doesn't go beyond the edge of the bowl.
Flip the bowl over. Brush the tortilla with oil on both sides, and place it over the bowl.
Fold-down the tortilla so that it "hugs" the bowl. Tie a piece of string half-way down, to help keep it in place (easiest if you have help, but I've done it alone too).
Place the bowl on a baking sheet, and bake for about 5-7 minutes, or until it is slightly brown and can hold its shape.
Using oven mitts, remove the bowl from the oven, and carefully remove the tortilla shell from around the bowl. Place upright on baking sheet (with string intact) and bake for an additional 6-8 minutes, until browned inside, but not burnt on the edges.
Remove from oven, remove string, and let cool before filling with desired fillings.

Filling Ideas
Beans (black or kidney are my favorite)
Serve them cold
Serve them warmed-up
Serve them in a refried style, mashed and sautéed with oil and onions/garlic/cilantro
Salad greens – Lettuce/spinach/kale, shredded
Bell pepper (capsicum), sliced
Carrots, shredded/julienned
Cucumber, shredded/diced/sliced
Corn kernels
Mushrooms, sliced and sauteed (portobello are awesome here)
Tofu strips, sauteed (to mimic chicken)
Rice or Quinoa (with Mexican seasoning)
Salsa (store-bought or quickly made with tomatoes, onions, garlic, lime, cilantro, chili)
Creamy cilantro dressing (in a blender, whiz soft silken tofu with a bit of water, olive oil, garlic, and cilantro)
Guacamole or avocado
Vegan shredded cheese
Vegan sour cream
Fresh cilantro (coriander)
Green onions
… whatever you have on hand and love in your salads!
OR, fill it with Avocado Mango Black Bean Salad

